---
layout: post
title: "Learning to Learn"
date: 2015-08-31
---

I've been talking to a lot of people to try and get a feel for the
options and landscape for an aspiring developer, and have learned
several things.

**1. I want to work for a product consultancy or devshop that has a very
teaching culture.**

I want to work for a product consultancy or devshop (to be honest, I
don't know if there's a difference between the two) because I would have
the opportunity to work on many more projects and be exposed to new
languages and frameworks, and I would have the opportunity to interact
with people form other industries, which is one of my favorite parts of
my job today.

I also realize that as developer, I suck and I need to get better in
order to provide any real attitude, I want to start my career as a
programmer with an [apprentice's
mindset](http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1234000001813/pr02.html)
and really try to soak up everything I can from the people around me so
that I can get better and start contributing. Without someone to guide
that learning and provide feedback, I'm not going to learn as much or as
quickly.

I'm still trying to get a grasp of the entire landscape, but from what I
can gather and the conversations I've had so far. This seems like the
right thing to shoot for.

**2. There's so much to learn.**

I'm reading "*The Well Grounded Rubyist"* to brush up on the theory, and
basic tenants of Object Oriented programming. If I'm committing to this,
I want to do it all the way and learn from the ground up. "*Why's
(Poignant) Guide to Ruby"* was a really great and memorable way to
introduce many of the concepts, I still like to think of Arrays as
content caterpillars stapled to paper. behind but I appreciate how
thorough and granular "*The Well Grounded Rubyist" *is. However, as much
as I realize how important a solid understanding of the fundamentals is,
you can't really learn to program by reading a book. You actually have
to open up a text-editor and do the work. that can be intimidating
because reading reveals just how little you know and you have to contend
with the fact that whatever you build is going to be built poorly and
turn out to be absolute shit.

I've been using the [ADEPT
method](http://betterexplained.com/articles/adept-method/) to get the
most out of what I read, and I've been using the problems on [Project
Euler](https://projecteuler.net/) as kind of a coding bare minimum for
the day. I like them because It forces me to figure out how I would
solve the problem in plain english first and then figure out how to
translate that into code.  I'll start posting my thought process and
solutions soon (I need to upload them to Github first). I'll soon take
on a project like TicTacToe or some sort of game like[Dwemthy's
Array](http://mislav.uniqpath.com/poignant-guide/dwemthy/), and you
should start to see a lot more code on here.

**3. TDD and Git are a big deal**

Test Driven Development (TDD) is something that I need to learn and so
is git. The two are unrelated but they came up a lot as I was doing job
research. I'm going to take [Thoughtbot's
course](https://upcase.com/test-driven-rails) for a primer on TDD and
still looking for a crash-course in git and github. More and more
quitting earlier and learning this stuff seems like a better and better
idea.

<div id="1440997431703" class="butter-embed" title="">

![](%7B%7B%20site.baseurl%20%7D%7D/assets/convert?width=600&fit=max&quality=80)

</div>
