---
layout: post
title: "First"
date: 2015-08-30
---

Hi! I'm Jerome, a programmer, well... almost. I recently decided to quit
my job helping start-ups in order to pursue a career as a developer.
It's a long story, but bear with me, this is the only time you'll here
it; the rest of the blog is about what happens next.

Like I said, I'm Jerome. My mom is French and My dad is American; I call
him pops. They met and fell in love in New York while pops was a cadet
at West Point and mother worked as an au pair for a terrible family.
Shortly after I was born my father went to Somalia, where he was the
commander at the port of Mogadishu. You know the movie "Black Hawk Down"
he was their before that, and after, to clean up. When he came back,
PTSD came with him, but he was still a young buck so it didn't show much
then. When my sister was born he resigned from the army and we went to
go live in Chicago.

We left Chicago because it was grey, and then after 8 years in the
Arizona rays, I came back and stayed. They have now lived in Belgium for
about a month, it's very grey there too though, so I don't know what
they were thinking. I guess when you have a choice to see your husband
or father after 6 years of him being abroad, you choose the grey. That's
right, pops went back to the army.

While he was away, I met a girl. She's from Venezuela and teaches me all
about Latin culture. I really dig her and it's been almost 3 years since
we've been going steady. She's been on the East Coast for about a month;
left around the same time as my family. Fingers crossed, but so far so
good.

That leaves me. Like I said, I work with start-ups. My job is a haven
for people that have talent and vague aspirations. Since I didn't really
know what I wanted to do with my life, it gave me an opportunity to feel
like I was doing everything. Entrepreneurship touches healthcare,
government, hardware, design, food, music, and architecture as well as
anything else that someone can get paid for. I got to meet and build
relationships from people in almost every industry and through that
gained a high-level view of how most things work in the business world.
After failing two of my own, I also got to see the inner-workings of
many startups and feel like I was making valuable contributions. For
someone without direction it was about the best job I could have asked
for, and it could've easily stayed that way.

I learned to code from a class I audited 6 months ago. I took the class
because I wanted to be able to build things, not because I thought I
would like it. To my surprise, coding turns out to be one of the only
things I've experienced that routinely gets me into a flow state. It's
like 4 or 5 hours pass by in an instant, and the only thing that pulls
me away is the rumbling of an abandoned stomach. It was very clear to me
that I enjoyed coding and therefore it was probably something I ought to
pursue, but despite this, I continued to tell myself that I didn't know
what I wanted to do.

Until very recently, I believed that it was better for me to let life
unfold as it may — stay in the present and face what’s in front of me. I
thought that setting goals -- putting up fantastical projections of the
future -- could only lead to failure and disappointment. So I didn’t
really try. Because with my way, the future seemed limitless and open to
whatever fancy I had in the present. Looking back, that attitude was
only the fear of failure wrapped up in a seer-sucker and bow-tie. If I
never decided a path, I would never fail because I had nothing to
benchmark against.I still think facing what in front of you is
paramount, and truly one of the key’s to a satisfying life, but I would
wrap the Neil Gaiman’s notion of a mountain in there as well. Have
something you are striving towards. It may turn out to be wrong, but
until it’s proven to be so, work towards it as if it was right.

I have great friends that will randomly text me questions like "Hey
Jerome, what are your most audacious goals?" I take them all very
seriously. Those questions have stopping power, I mean they get lodged
in there deep. They rattle around for days on end and eventually collide
with other thought fragments, waiting for the right conversation to make
them spontaneously coalesce into decision and conviction.

This summer has been an elongated inflection point. It seems safe to say
that things will be different from now on. This blog is about capturing
those experiences, my thoughts and what I learn from them.
