---
layout: post
title: The 4th Economy
date: 2015-09-17
---

If you've read my first post, you know that my family lives in Belgium
and my girlfriend in Connecticut. I love them very much and it's tough
to be away from them. The silver lining is that with the absence of
proximity, I've gotten more time to get to know myself. As I wind
through the pinhole-alleyways of my mind and soul, I'm discovering and
dusting off vestiges of boyhood curiosity, and repurposing the vintage
into new goals and aspirations. As a result, I've quit my job and
started a career (can you call it a career if it's unpaid?) as a
software developer. Why? I enjoy it, and it will allow me to live a more
entrepreneurial life. It's unabashed egoism and hubris that I can have
my cake and eat it too. Yet, many people I admire are doing just that.
They aren't evil assholes or narcissistic pricks, just people (smart
people) who figured out what they wanted and had the wherewithal and
fortitude to seek it with conviction.

That's what's been most exciting about these past couple of weeks. In
learning about myself, I'm articulating and affirming my convictions and
stoking a fire that's only been a pile of smoldering coals until
recently.

> "The old rules are crumbling and nobody knows what the new rules are.
> So make up your own rules. And now go, and make interesting mistakes,
> make amazing mistakes, make glorious and fantastic mistakes. Break
> rules. Leave the world more interesting for your being here. Make good
> art."
>
> - Neil Gaiman (*Make Good Art)*

There's sizable gulf between knowing the veracity of that incredibly
empowering statement, and doing anything about it. Much of what we
consider immutable law is, in fact, only social norm. The rules are a
question of culture, and culture changes; we make it change. more so
than ever before does the power to generate cultural changes reside with
the individual.  We're entering the [4th
Economy](http://taylorpearson.me/the-fourth-economy/) -- the [end of
jobs](http://taylorpearson.me/summary/); the age of the entrepreneur.

I'm also seeing a change in the make-up of my relationships. Less
*granfalloon* and more *karass*.  My conversations are getting deeper
and more interesting and I find myself wanting to find ways to bring
people I know together to talk and potentially collaborate. Those
conversations are invigorating and provide a really helpful contrast and
backdrop to the tunnel-vision focus that's requisite for scaling the
programming learning curve. Part of me feels that I'm short-changing
myself if I'm not working on coding the entire time, reading books in my
downtime etc. The stronger part of me thinks that perspective is crucial
and without these conversations or books I'd be out of touch and
drowning in minutiae.

That's all folks.
