---
layout: post
title: Inability to Type and Erudition
date: 2016-01-13
---

I'm learning to type and it's infuriating. I'm hovering around 25 WPM
right now and that's without using half of the keyboard. It might not be
the most prudent thing to do when learning a new language and Vim, but
If not now, when. The long-term benefits far outweigh the short-term
hassle. Over the next couple weeks,  in addition to any of the code I
write I plan on practicing typing the correct way everyday until it
becomes second nature.

I finished the Clojure Koans today, but feel no more confident to begin
TicTacToe. I'll make my first go at it tomorrow and likely won't get
very far, which is fine. Hopefully I can get some tests to pass.

I also read the first three chapters of  *Agile Principles, Patterns,
and Practices. *From the first chapter the thing that sticks most in my
mind is the strong emphasis on delivering working software as a measure
of progress. Having worked with many aspiring entrepreneurs over the
past 3 years, I've always emphasized doing some sort of work to gather
real-life data. Modeling will only get you so far, and often time it
takes you in the  wrong direction.

From the chapter on Extreme Programming (XP) I appreciated points made
on paired programming and a shared workspace. Even though I've never
worked on a development team, I am a big proponent of what I'd generally
call *well-roundedness *or the idea that a breadth of knowledge on a
multitude of areas is as important as specialization in a specific
topic. In other words, erudition. When everyone understands what's going
on holistically, when everyone is concerned with and cares about each
aspect of the system, I'd imagine that higher-quality is a natural
byproduct.

A corollary of erudition is the manifestation of a complete system into
a well-fitted metaphor. I'm reminded of Richard Feynman's
[anecdote](https://haveabit.com/feynman/knowing-the-name-of-something/)
about knowing the name of something and knowing something. There's also
his so called technique for learning as well as the [ADEPT
method](http://betterexplained.com/articles/adept-method/). Analogy is
not surprisingly the first of the requirements, it provides an imperfect
but useful mnemonic, that helps provide a good bird's eye view of
something. I think the practice of metaphor in XP is similar, It
provides a common lexicon to talk about something very complex. Although
the resolution of the metaphor might not be crystalline it can still be
extremely helpful in getting a better sense for the big picture.

A couple more thoughts on simplicity and refactoring. While easily a
banal platitude, the mantra of simplicity when undertaken with rigor is
more of a check on rampant assumptions and killing of sacred cows. It's
a constant gentle push to return to a *beginner's mind* and cast aside
one's ego. Refactoring, to me is more a practice against a habit of
procrastination, and because it's such a transferable concept, I think
it's very valuable. For code, and indeed for most of what we endeavor in
life, the easiest time to fix or better something is now. So why wait?

 

 

 
