---
layout: post
title: "Triggers"
date: "2019-08-16 18:50:16 -0400"
---

I'm listening to the song 'Spiritual State' by the late artist: Nujabes.
The last time I wrote, I also listened to it. Each time I started working
this week, I listened to an instrumental rendition of Gary Jules' 'Mad
World'. I'm trying to create triggers.

I enjoy writing, but I often let the Resistance get the better of me. The
same goes for work. It's just hard to start a lot of the time. By creating
triggers, I'm hoping I can bypass procrastination through Pavlovian
Conditioning. It's really basic stuff: Play the songs as I write or work
- develop an association - hear the song - immediately go into writing or
  work mode. That's the hope, at least.

Many elite performers in combat sports, for instance, use a walkout song
to immediately put themselves into a peak state for their fight. Morning
and evening routines can be thought of in the same way. When I brush my
teeth in the morning, I'm wide awake aftwerwards no matter how groggy
I may have been when I picked up the the toothbrush. It's not because
there's something in my toothpaste that's waking me up. It's just that
brushing my teeth is my trigger for saying that sleep is no longer an
option.

I've held an interest in habits and behavior formation for a long time,
but I've never really thought about the triggers for those habits
themselves. Instead, thinking that it's best to always link habits to
existing behaviors. It never occurred to me to manufacture a trigger for
the purpose of illiciting some behavior. I'm intrigued by the idea and
eager to see how I might apply triggers other behaviors I find it
difficult to elicit naturally (cleaning seems to be a great next
candidate).



